>>rebase >>conflicts >> Squash & Cherry-pick

1. What is cherry-pick ?

Cherry-picking in git means choosing a commit from one branch and applying it to another branch.
Cherry-picking is just like rebasing, an advanced concept and also a powerful command. 
It is mainly used if you don’t want to merge the whole branch and you want some of the commits.

example:

Suppose a developer fails to recognize which branch he is currently on, and by mistake, 
he commits to another branch instead of committing that to the main branch. Now to fix it, 
he has to first run git show, then save the commit, then check out the main branch, apply patch there 
and commit with the same commit message. 
But all this can be done automatically by using just one command i.e. cherry-pick.

The command for Cherry-pick is as follows: 

git cherry-pick<commit-hash>
Commit hash: A commit hash is a unique identifier that is generated by Git. 
Each commit has its one commit hash.

Note: While using this command make sure you are on the branch you want to apply the commit.

Some important Usecases of Cherry-pick are as follows: 

If you by mistake make a commit in an incorrect branch, then using cherry-pick you can apply 
the required changes.Suppose when the same data structure is to be used by both the frontend and
 backend of a project. Then a developer can use cherry-pick to pick the commit and use it to 
 his/her part of the project.At the point when a bug is found it is critical to convey a fix 
to end clients as fast as could be expected.
Some of the time a component branch might go old and not get converged into
 the main branch and the request might get closed, but since git never loses those commits, 
 it can be cherry-picked and it would be back.

 Disadvantages of using Cherry Pick
Cherry-pick should not be used always as it can cause copy commits 
and numerous situations where cherry-picking would work, conventional merges are 
liked all things considered. Also, in the situation where the commits from 2 or more 
branches update similar lines of code with various substances and git cherry-pick one commit to the other branch, it prompts conflict as well.

2. What is rebase ? 

